README.md, before:

# lage

This is the *stable* release branch. It is what will appear in the "latest" tag for npm registry.

Documentation is here: https://microsoft.github.io/lage/

## Overview

Your JS repo has gotten large enough that you have turned to using a tool to help you manage multiple packages inside a repository. That's great! However, you realized quickly that the tasks defined inside the workspace have to be run in package dependency order.

Lerna, Rush, wsrun and even pnpm will provide a simple way for you to run npm scripts to be run in a topological order. However, these tools will force you to run your tasks by script name one at a time. For example, all the `build` scripts will have to run first. Then all the `test` scripts run in the topological order.

This usually means that there are wasted CPU cycles in between `build` and `test`. We can achieve better pipelining the npm scripts if we had a way to say that `test` can run as soon as `build` are done for the package.

`lage` (Norwegian for "make", pronounced law-geh) solves this by providing a terse pipelining syntax. It has many features geared towards speeding up the task runner that we'll explore later.

## Quick Start

`lage` gives you this capability with very little configuration. First, let's install the `lage` utility. You can place this in your workspace's root `package.json` by running `yarn add`:

```
yarn add -D lage
```

Confirm with `yarn` that you are sure to add a package at the root level, you then place a root level script inside the `package.json` to run `lage`:

```
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "lage build",
    "test": "lage test"
  }
}
```

Add a configuration file in the root to get started. Create this file at the root `lage.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  pipeline: {
    build: ["^build"],
    test: ["build"],
  },
};
```

Do not worry about the syntax for now. We will go over the configuration file in a coming section. You can now run this command:

```
$ lage test
```

`lage` will detect that you need to run `build` steps before `test`s are run.



# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Make the package publish to "stable" tag

README.md, after:

# lage

> **Warning**
>
> Deprecation warning! 
> 
> This is the *stable* release branch. It is what will appear in the "stable" tag for npm registry. As there are some large changes in the 1.0+ branch (latest), we have decided to preserve this branch to help with any hotfixes. 
> 
> This branch will no longer publish new versions on submit post September 2022 - the release pipeline will only occur manually as triggered by a contributor to this repo. 
>
> If you are consuming lage now, please see the latest: https://github.com/microsoft/lage/tree/master

Documentation is here: https://microsoft.github.io/lage/

## Overview

Your JS repo has gotten large enough that you have turned to using a tool to help you manage multiple packages inside a repository. That's great! However, you realized quickly that the tasks defined inside the workspace have to be run in package dependency order.

Lerna, Rush, wsrun and even pnpm will provide a simple way for you to run npm scripts to be run in a topological order. However, these tools will force you to run your tasks by script name one at a time. For example, all the `build` scripts will have to run first. Then all the `test` scripts run in the topological order.

This usually means that there are wasted CPU cycles in between `build` and `test`. We can achieve better pipelining the npm scripts if we had a way to say that `test` can run as soon as `build` are done for the package.

`lage` (Norwegian for "make", pronounced law-geh) solves this by providing a terse pipelining syntax. It has many features geared towards speeding up the task runner that we'll explore later.

## Quick Start

`lage` gives you this capability with very little configuration. First, let's install the `lage` utility. You can place this in your workspace's root `package.json` by running `yarn add`:

```
yarn add -D lage
```

Confirm with `yarn` that you are sure to add a package at the root level, you then place a root level script inside the `package.json` to run `lage`:

```
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "lage build",
    "test": "lage test"
  }
}
```

Add a configuration file in the root to get started. Create this file at the root `lage.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  pipeline: {
    build: ["^build"],
    test: ["build"],
  },
};
```

Do not worry about the syntax for now. We will go over the configuration file in a coming section. You can now run this command:

```
$ lage test
```

`lage` will detect that you need to run `build` steps before `test`s are run.



# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
