docs/guide/cli.md, before:

---
title: CLI usage
---

# CLI usage

`lage` is meant to be run as a CLI. After installing `lage` inside the repository or globally, you can run the npm scripts from your repository like this:

```
$ lage build
```

## Caching

`lage` by default will skip tasks that it has already done recently. As long as the source file and the command called to `lage` has not changed, those packages will be skipped. Sometimes, this incremental behavior is not desired. You can override the caching behavior by using the `no-cache` argument.

```
$ lage build --no-cache
```

## Verbose

`lage` by default will hide the output from successful tasks. If you want to see the output as they are being generated, call `lage` with the `verbose` argument.

```
$ lage build --verbose
```

## Options

### CliOptions
#### cache
_type: boolean_

default: true, --no-cache will skip fetching cache or saving cache

`lage` by default will skip tasks that it has already done recently. As long as the source file and the command called to `lage` has not changed, those packages will be skipped. Sometimes, this incremental behavior is not desired. You can override the caching behavior by using the `no-cache` argument.

```
$ lage build --no-cache
```

  
#### command
_type: string[]_

positional arguments that specify which tasks to run

Commands are collected as an array like this:

```
lage build test bundle
```

This will tell `lage` to execute all three commands against all the packages

  
#### concurrency
_type: number_

number of parallel tasks that can be run at a time

By default, this is the number of CPU cores detected by `os.cpus().length`,
change to any number to achieve desired concurrency.

  
#### deps
_type: boolean_

default: true, --no-deps will skip dependent packages and tasks

This has the semantic of running tasks up to what is specified in the command line
such as with `--scope` or `--since`

  
#### grouped
_type: boolean_

Specify whether to make the console logger to group the logs per package task

Example: `lage --grouped`

  
#### ignore
_type: string[]_

Ignores certain files when calculating the scope with `--since`

Certain files might need to be changed during the preparation of a build
job. In that situation, `lage` can ignore those files when calculating what
has changed with the `--since` flag.

  
#### node
_type: string[]_

node arguments to be passed into the npm lifecycle scripts

For example:

To increase the amount of memory to use for the npm tasks
```
lage --node="--max_old_space_size=8192"
```

  
#### only
_type: boolean_

only run the commands, do not consider dependent tasks

For example, if `test` depends on `build`, `lage` will always run `build` before `test`.

You can type this `lage test --only` to skip running `build` task altogether. This is much
like what is the default of `lerna` or `rush`.

  
#### profile
_type: boolean_

Creates a flamegraph-profile JSON for Chromium-based devtool

Pay attention to the output summary to find the location of the JSON file.

  
#### reporter
_type: string_

Specify whether to use the JSON Reporter to create a parsable log output

Example: `lage --reporter json`

  
#### resetCache
_type: boolean_

--reset-cache will skip fetching cache, but will overwrite cache

```
lage --reset-cache
```

Will always run the tasks, while reseting the saved cache

  
#### scope
_type: string[]_

Which specific packages to consider as in scope for the run

This act as the "entry point" of the package-task graph traversal. To prevent
running tasks for dependent package, use the `--no-deps` flag in combination.

You can specify multiple scoped packages like this:

```
lage build --scope foo --scope bar --scope baz
```

  
#### since
_type: string_

calculate which packages are in scope based on changed packages since a mergebase

This uses the `git diff ${target_branch}...` mechanism to identify which packages
have changed. There is an assumption of all the input files for a package exist
inside their respective package folders.

  
#### to
_type: string[]_

Scopes a list of packages, and not built their dependents (consuming packages).
This implies `--scope` and `--no-deps`.

Just like the `--scope` argument, you can specify multiple packages like this:

```
lage build --to foo --to bar
```

  
#### verbose
_type: boolean_

Verbose mode, turns on all logging

`lage` by default will hide the output from successful tasks. If you want to see the
output as they are being generated, call `lage` with the `verbose` argument.

```
$ lage build --verbose
```

#### safe-exit

_type: boolean_

Runs currently executing tasks to completion before exiting.
This prevents the risk of having orphaned child processes running after
`lage` has exited.

Commit message:

feat: Add --include-dependencies option (#112)
* feat: Add --include-dependencies option

Add an option to run tasks for transitive dependencies
regardless of --scope or --since

* Change files

* docs: include-dependencies cli option

* fix: Fix test build error

* test: Add test for include-dependencies option

* docs: include-dependencies

Add example to remove ambiguity

docs/guide/cli.md, after:

---
title: CLI usage
---

# CLI usage

`lage` is meant to be run as a CLI. After installing `lage` inside the repository or globally, you can run the npm scripts from your repository like this:

```
$ lage build
```

## Caching

`lage` by default will skip tasks that it has already done recently. As long as the source file and the command called to `lage` has not changed, those packages will be skipped. Sometimes, this incremental behavior is not desired. You can override the caching behavior by using the `no-cache` argument.

```
$ lage build --no-cache
```

## Verbose

`lage` by default will hide the output from successful tasks. If you want to see the output as they are being generated, call `lage` with the `verbose` argument.

```
$ lage build --verbose
```

## Options

### CliOptions
#### cache
_type: boolean_

default: true, --no-cache will skip fetching cache or saving cache

`lage` by default will skip tasks that it has already done recently. As long as the source file and the command called to `lage` has not changed, those packages will be skipped. Sometimes, this incremental behavior is not desired. You can override the caching behavior by using the `no-cache` argument.

```
$ lage build --no-cache
```

  
#### command
_type: string[]_

positional arguments that specify which tasks to run

Commands are collected as an array like this:

```
lage build test bundle
```

This will tell `lage` to execute all three commands against all the packages

  
#### concurrency
_type: number_

number of parallel tasks that can be run at a time

By default, this is the number of CPU cores detected by `os.cpus().length`,
change to any number to achieve desired concurrency.

  
#### deps
_type: boolean_

default: true, --no-deps will skip dependent packages and tasks

This has the semantic of running tasks up to what is specified in the command line
such as with `--scope` or `--since`

  
#### grouped
_type: boolean_

Specify whether to make the console logger to group the logs per package task

Example: `lage --grouped`

  
#### ignore
_type: string[]_

Ignores certain files when calculating the scope with `--since`

Certain files might need to be changed during the preparation of a build
job. In that situation, `lage` can ignore those files when calculating what
has changed with the `--since` flag.

#### include-dependencies
_type: boolean_

Include all transitive dependencies when running a command(s).
This is useful for situations where you want to "set up" a package that relies on other packages being set up.

```
lage setup --scope my-package --include-dependencies
# my-package and all of its dependencies will be setup
```

#### node
_type: string[]_

node arguments to be passed into the npm lifecycle scripts

For example:

To increase the amount of memory to use for the npm tasks
```
lage --node="--max_old_space_size=8192"
```

  
#### only
_type: boolean_

only run the commands, do not consider dependent tasks

For example, if `test` depends on `build`, `lage` will always run `build` before `test`.

You can type this `lage test --only` to skip running `build` task altogether. This is much
like what is the default of `lerna` or `rush`.

  
#### profile
_type: boolean_

Creates a flamegraph-profile JSON for Chromium-based devtool

Pay attention to the output summary to find the location of the JSON file.

  
#### reporter
_type: string_

Specify whether to use the JSON Reporter to create a parsable log output

Example: `lage --reporter json`

  
#### resetCache
_type: boolean_

--reset-cache will skip fetching cache, but will overwrite cache

```
lage --reset-cache
```

Will always run the tasks, while reseting the saved cache

  
#### scope
_type: string[]_

Which specific packages to consider as in scope for the run

This act as the "entry point" of the package-task graph traversal. To prevent
running tasks for dependent package, use the `--no-deps` flag in combination.

You can specify multiple scoped packages like this:

```
lage build --scope foo --scope bar --scope baz
```

  
#### since
_type: string_

calculate which packages are in scope based on changed packages since a mergebase

This uses the `git diff ${target_branch}...` mechanism to identify which packages
have changed. There is an assumption of all the input files for a package exist
inside their respective package folders.

  
#### to
_type: string[]_

Scopes a list of packages, and not built their dependents (consuming packages).
This implies `--scope` and `--no-deps`.

Just like the `--scope` argument, you can specify multiple packages like this:

```
lage build --to foo --to bar
```

  
#### verbose
_type: boolean_

Verbose mode, turns on all logging

`lage` by default will hide the output from successful tasks. If you want to see the
output as they are being generated, call `lage` with the `verbose` argument.

```
$ lage build --verbose
```

#### safe-exit

_type: boolean_

Runs currently executing tasks to completion before exiting.
This prevents the risk of having orphaned child processes running after
`lage` has exited.
