docs/guide/config.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
---

Configuration is provided by [Cosmiconfig](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cosmiconfig), so `lage` configuration is very flexible! We recommend the use of a `lage.config.js` because it is both concise and flexible.

Create a `lage.config.js` file and place all your configurations there:

```js
module.exports = {
  pipeline: {
    build: ["^build"],
    test: ["build"],
  },
};
```


## Options

### CacheOptions

_type: BackfillCacheOptions & { environmentGlob: string[] }_
### ConfigOptions
#### cache
_type: boolean_

Should cache be enabled
  
#### cacheOptions
_type: [CacheOptions](#CacheOptions)_

Backfill cache options
  
#### ignore
_type: string[]_

Which files to ignore when calculating scopes with --since
  
#### npmClient
_type: "npm" | "yarn" | "pnpm"_

Which NPM Client to use when running npm lifecycle scripts
  
#### pipeline
_type: [Pipeline](#Pipeline)_

Defines the task pipeline, prefix with "^" character to denote a topological dependency

Example:

```
{
  build: ["^build"],
  test: ["build"],
  lint: []
}
```

  
#### priorities
_type: [Priority](#Priority)[]_

Optional priority to set on tasks in a package to make the scheduler give priority to tasks on the critical path for high priority tasks
  
#### repoWideChanges
_type: string[]_

disables --since flag when any of this list of files changed
  
### Pipeline


### Pipelines

_type: Map<string, [Pipeline](#Pipeline)>_
### Priority
#### package
_type: string_

package name, as in package.json
  
#### priority
_type: number_

priority, the higher the more priority; undefined priority means lowest priority
  
#### task
_type: string_

task name, as listed in the `scripts` section of package.json

Commit message:

Allow parallel scheduling of transitive dependencies with ^^ prefix (#192)
* add ^^ for queueing transitive dependencies

* revert some changes to monorepo test case

* fix typos and clarify comments in transitiveTaskDeps test

* update docs with notes on new task prefix

* Change files

* make usage of backtick vs quote consistent in updated docs

* avoid infinite walk over circular dependencies

* validate behaviour of non-prefixed dependency with test

* remove stray console.log

* Cache transitive deps on walked subgraphs in Pipeline.

docs/guide/config.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
---

Configuration is provided by [Cosmiconfig](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cosmiconfig), so `lage` configuration is very flexible! We recommend the use of a `lage.config.js` because it is both concise and flexible.

Create a `lage.config.js` file and place all your configurations there:

```js
module.exports = {
  pipeline: {
    build: ["^build"],
    test: ["build"],
  },
};
```


## Options

### CacheOptions

_type: BackfillCacheOptions & { environmentGlob: string[] }_
### ConfigOptions
#### cache
_type: boolean_

Should cache be enabled
  
#### cacheOptions
_type: [CacheOptions](#CacheOptions)_

Backfill cache options
  
#### ignore
_type: string[]_

Which files to ignore when calculating scopes with --since
  
#### npmClient
_type: "npm" | "yarn" | "pnpm"_

Which NPM Client to use when running npm lifecycle scripts
  
#### pipeline
_type: [Pipeline](#Pipeline)_

Defines the task pipeline.

- Use a tasks's name with no prefix to denote a package-local dependency.
- Prefix with `^` character to denote a direct topological dependency.
- Prefix with `^^` to denote a transitive topological dependency (This includes tasks from dependencies of dependencies).

Example:

```
{
  build: ["^build"],
  test: ["build"],
  lint: []

  bundle: ["^^transpile"],
  transpile: []
}
```

  
#### priorities
_type: [Priority](#Priority)[]_

Optional priority to set on tasks in a package to make the scheduler give priority to tasks on the critical path for high priority tasks
  
#### repoWideChanges
_type: string[]_

disables --since flag when any of this list of files changed
  
### Pipeline


### Pipelines

_type: Map<string, [Pipeline](#Pipeline)>_
### Priority
#### package
_type: string_

package name, as in package.json
  
#### priority
_type: number_

priority, the higher the more priority; undefined priority means lowest priority
  
#### task
_type: string_

task name, as listed in the `scripts` section of package.json
